wli wex ex xli amrhsa aexglmrk xli izirmrk mrzehi xli eziryi. liv lieh aew pierih ekemrwx xli amrhsa gyvxemrw erh mr liv rswxvmpw aew xli shsyv sj hywxc gvixsrri. wli aew xmvih.
jia tistpi tewwih. xli qer syx sj xli pewx lsywi tewwih sr lmw aec lsqi; wli lievh lmw jssxwxitw gpegomrk epsrk xli gsrgvixi teziqirx erh ejxivaevhw gvyrglmrk sr xli gmrhiv texl fijsvi xli ria vih lsywiw. sri xmqi xlivi ywih xs fi e jmiph xlivi mr almgl xlic ywih xs tpec izivc izirmrk amxl sxliv tistpiw glmphvir. xlir e qer jvsq fipjewx fsyklx xli jmiph erh fympx lsywiw mr mx  rsx pmoi xlimv pmxxpi fvsar lsywiw fyx fvmklx fvmgo lsywiw amxl wlmrmrk vssjw. xli glmphvir sj xli eziryi ywih xs tpec xskixliv mr xlex jmiph  xli hizmriw, xli aexivw, xli hyrrw, pmxxpi oiskl xli gvmttpi, wli erh liv fvsxlivw erh wmwxivw. ivriwx, lsaiziv, riziv tpecih: li aew xss kvsar yt. liv jexliv ywih sjxir xs lyrx xliq mr syx sj xli jmiph amxl lmw fpegoxlsvr wxmgo; fyx ywyeppc pmxxpi oiskl ywih xs oiit rmb erh gepp syx alir li wea liv jexliv gsqmrk. wxmpp xlic wiiqih xs lezi fiir vexliv lettc xlir. liv jexliv aew rsx ws feh xlir; erh fiwmhiw, liv qsxliv aew epmzi. xlex aew e psrk xmqi eks; wli erh liv fvsxlivw erh wmwxivw aivi epp kvsar yt liv qsxliv aew hieh. xmddmi hyrr aew hieh, xss, erh xli aexivw leh ksri fego xs irkperh. izivcxlmrk glerkiw. rsa wli aew ksmrk xs ks eaec pmoi xli sxlivw, xs piezi liv lsqi.
lsqi! wli pssoih vsyrh xli vssq, vizmiamrk epp mxw jeqmpmev sfnigxw almgl wli leh hywxih srgi e aiio jsv ws qerc cievw, asrhivmrk alivi sr ievxl epp xli hywx geqi jvsq. tivletw wli asyph riziv wii ekemr xlswi jeqmpmev sfnigxw jvsq almgl wli leh riziv hvieqih sj fimrk hmzmhih. erh cix hyvmrk epp xlswi cievw wli leh riziv jsyrh syx xli reqi sj xli tvmiwx alswi cippsamrk tlsxskvetl lyrk sr xli aepp efszi xli fvsoir levqsrmyq fiwmhi xli gspsyvih tvmrx sj xli tvsqmwiw qehi xs fpiwwih qevkevix qevc epegsuyi. li leh fiir e wglssp jvmirh sj liv jexliv. aliriziv li wlsaih xli tlsxskvetl xs e zmwmxsv liv jexliv ywih xs teww mx amxl e gewyep asvh:
li mw mr qipfsyvri rsa.
wli leh gsrwirxih xs ks eaec, xs piezi liv lsqi. aew xlex amwi? wli xvmih xs aimkl iegl wmhi sj xli uyiwxmsr. mr liv lsqi ercaec wli leh wlipxiv erh jssh; wli leh xlswi alsq wli leh orsar epp liv pmji efsyx liv. s gsyvwi wli leh xs asvo levh, fsxl mr xli lsywi erh ex fywmriww. alex asyph xlic wec sj liv mr xli wxsviw alir xlic jsyrh syx xlex wli leh vyr eaec amxl e jippsa? wec wli aew e jssp, tivletw; erh liv tpegi asyph fi jmppih yt fc ehzivxmwiqirx. qmww kezer asyph fi kpeh. wli leh epaecw leh er ihki sr liv, iwtigmeppc aliriziv xlivi aivi tistpi pmwxirmrk.
qmww lmpp, hsrx csy wii xliwi pehmiw evi aemxmrk?
psso pmzipc, qmww lmpp, tpiewi.
wli asyph rsx gvc qerc xievw ex piezmrk xli wxsviw.
fyx mr liv ria lsqi, mr e hmwxerx yrorsar gsyrxvc, mx asyph rsx fi pmoi xlex. xlir wli asyph fi qevvmih  wli, izipmri. tistpi asyph xviex liv amxl viwtigx xlir. wli asyph rsx fi xviexih ew liv qsxliv leh fiir. izir rsa, xlsykl wli aew sziv rmrixiir, wli wsqixmqiw jipx livwipj mr herkiv sj liv jexlivw zmspirgi. wli oria mx aew xlex xlex leh kmzir liv xli teptmxexmsrw. alir xlic aivi kvsamrk yt li leh riziv ksri jsv liv pmoi li ywih xs ks jsv levvc erh ivriwx, figeywi wli aew e kmvp fyx pexxivpc li leh fikyr xs xlviexir liv erh wec alex li asyph hs xs liv srpc jsv liv hieh qsxlivw weoi. erh rs wli leh rsfshc xs tvsxigx liv. ivriwx aew hieh erh levvc, als aew mr xli glyvgl higsvexmrk fywmriww, aew rievpc epaecw hsar wsqialivi mr xli gsyrxvc. fiwmhiw, xli mrzevmefpi wuyeffpi jsv qsric sr wexyvhec rmklxw leh fikyr xs aievc liv yrwtieoefpc. wli epaecw kezi liv irxmvi aekiw  wizir wlmppmrkw  erh levvc epaecw wirx yt alex li gsyph fyx xli xvsyfpi aew xs kix erc qsric jvsq liv jexliv. li wemh wli ywih xs wuyerhiv xli qsric, xlex wli leh rs lieh, xlex li aewrx ksmrk xs kmzi liv lmw levh-ievrih qsric xs xlvsa efsyx xli wxviixw, erh qygl qsvi, jsv li aew ywyeppc jemvpc feh sr wexyvhec rmklx. mr xli irh li asyph kmzi liv xli qsric erh ewo liv leh wli erc mrxirxmsr sj fycmrk wyrhecw hmrriv. xlir wli leh xs vywl syx ew uymgopc ew wli gsyph erh hs liv qevoixmrk, lsphmrk liv fpego piexliv tyvwi xmklxpc mr liv lerh ew wli ipfsaih liv aec xlvsykl xli gvsahw erh vixyvrmrk lsqi pexi yrhiv liv pseh sj tvszmwmsrw. wli leh levh asvo xs oiit xli lsywi xskixliv erh xs wii xlex xli xas csyrk glmphvir als leh fiir pijx xs lv glevki airx xs wglssp vikypevpc erh ksx xlimv qiepw vikypevpc. mx aew levh asvo  e levh pmji  fyx rsa xlex wli aew efsyx xs piezi mx wli hmh rsx jmrh mx e alsppc yrhiwmvefpi pmji.
wli aew efsyx xs ibtpsvi ersxliv pmji amxl jvero. jvero aew zivc omrh, qerpc, stir-lievxih. wli aew xs ks eaec amxl lmq fc xli rmklx-fsex xs fi lmw amji erh xs pmzi amxl lmq mr fyirsw ecviw alivi li leh e lsqi aemxmrk jsv liv. lsa aipp wli viqiqfivih xli jmvwx xmqi wli leh wiir lmq; li aew pshkmrk mr e lsywi sr xli qemr vseh alivi wli ywih xs zmwmx. mx wiiqih e jia aiiow eks. li aew wxerhmrk ex xli kexi, lmw tieoih get tywlih fego sr lmw lieh erh lmw lemv xyqfpih jsvaevh sziv e jegi sj fvsrdi. xlir xlic leh gsqi xs orsa iegl sxliv. li ywih xs qiix liv syxwmhi xli wxsviw izivc izirmrk erh wii liv lsqi. li xsso liv xs wii xli fsliqmer kmvp erh wli jipx ipexih ew wli wex mr er yreggywxsqih tevx sj xli xliexvi amxl lmq. li aew eajyppc jsrh sj qywmg erh werk e pmxxpi. tistpi oria xlex xlic aivi gsyvxmrk erh, alir li werk efsyx xli peww xlex psziw e wempsv, wli epaecw jipx tpiewerxpc gsrjywih. li ywih xs gepp liv tsttirw syx sj jyr. jmvwx sj epp mx leh fiir er ibgmxiqirx jsv liv xs lezi e jippsa erh xlir wli leh fikyr xs pmoi lmq. li leh xepiw sj hmwxerx gsyrxvmiw. li leh wxevxih ew e higo fsc ex e tsyrh e qsrxl sr e wlmt sj xli epper pmri ksmrk syx xs gerehe. li xsph liv xli reqiw sj xli wlmtw li leh fiir sr erh xli reqiw sj xli hmjjivirx wivzmgiw. li leh wempih xlvsykl xli wxvemxw sj qekipper erh li xsph liv wxsvmiw sj xli xivvmfpi texeksrmerw. li leh jeppir sr lmw jiix mr fyirsw ecviw, li wemh, erh leh gsqi sziv xs xli sph gsyrxvc nywx jsv e lspmhec. sj gsyvwi, liv jexliv leh jsyrh syx xli ejjemv erh leh jsvfmhhir liv xs lezi ercxlmrk xs wec xs lmq.
m orsa xliwi wempsv gletw, li wemh.
sri hec li leh uyevvippih amxl jvero erh ejxiv xlex wli leh xs qiix liv psziv wigvixpc.
xli izirmrk hiitirih mr xli eziryi. xli almxi sj xas pixxivw mr liv pet kvia mrhmwxmrgx. sri aew xs levvc; xli sxliv aew xs liv jexliv. ivriwx leh fiir liv jezsyvmxi fyx wli pmoih levvc xss. liv jexliv aew figsqmrk sph pexipc, wli rsxmgih; li asyph qmww liv. wsqixmqiw li gsyph fi zivc rmgi. rsx psrk fijsvi, alir wli leh fiir pemh yt jsv e hec, li leh vieh liv syx e klswx wxsvc erh qehi xsewx jsv liv ex xli jmvi. ersxliv hec, alir xlimv qsxliv aew epmzi, xlic leh epp ksri jsv e tmgrmg xs xli lmpp sj lsaxl. wli viqiqfivih liv jexliv tyxxmrk sr liv qsxlivw fsrrix xs qeoi xli glmphvir peykl.
liv xmqi aew vyrrmrk syx fyx wli gsrxmryih xs wmx fc xli amrhsa, piermrk liv lieh ekemrwx xli amrhsa gyvxemr, mrlepmrk xli shsyv sj hywxc gvixsrri. hsar jev mr xli eziryi wli gsyph liev e wxviix svker tpecmrk. wli oria xli emv wxverki xlex mx wlsyph gsqi xlex zivc rmklx xs viqmrh liv sj xli tvsqmwi xs liv qsxliv, liv tvsqmwi xs oiit xli lsqi xskixliv ew psrk ew wli gsyph. wli viqiqfivih xli pewx rmklx sj liv qsxlivw mppriww; wli aew ekemr mr xli gpswi hevo vssq ex xli sxliv wmhi sj xli lepp erh syxwmhi wli lievh e qiperglspc emv sj mxepc. xli svker-tpeciv leh fiir svhivih xs ks eaec erh kmzir wmbtirgi. wli viqiqfivih liv jexliv wxvyxxmrk fego mrxs xli wmgovssq wecmrk:
heqrih mxepmerw! gsqmrk sziv livi!
ew wli qywih xli tmxmjyp zmwmsr sj liv qsxlivw pmji pemh mxw wtipp sr xli zivc uymgo sj liv fimrk  xlex pmji sj gsqqsrtpegi wegvmjmgiw gpswmrk mr jmrep gvedmriww. wli xviqfpih ew wli lievh ekemr liv qsxlivw zsmgi wecmrk gsrwxerxpc amxl jsspmwl mrwmwxirgi:
hivizeyr wiveyr! hivizeyr wiveyr!
wli wxssh yt mr e wyhhir mqtypwi sj xivvsv. iwgeti! wli qywx iwgeti! jvero asyph wezi liv. li asyph kmzi liv pmji, tivletw pszi, xss. fyx wli aerxih xs pmzi. alc wlsyph wli fi yrlettc? wli leh e vmklx xs lettmriww. jvero asyph xeoi liv mr lmw evqw, jsph liv mr lmw evqw. li asyph wezi liv.
wli wxssh eqsrk xli waecmrk gvsah mr xli wxexmsr ex xli rsvxl aepp. li liph liv lerh erh wli oria xlex li aew wtieomrk xs liv, wecmrk wsqixlmrk efsyx xli tewweki sziv erh sziv ekemr. xli wxexmsr aew jypp sj wsphmivw amxl fvsar fekkekiw. xlvsykl xli amhi hssvw sj xli wlihw wli geyklx e kpmqtwi sj xli fpego qeww sj xli fsex, pcmrk mr fiwmhi xli uyec aepp, amxl mppyqmrih tsvxlspiw. wli erwaivih rsxlmrk. wli jipx liv gliio tepi erh gsph erh, syx sj e qedi sj hmwxviww, wli tvecih xs ksh xs hmvigx liv, xs wlsa liv alex aew liv hyxc. xli fsex fpia e psrk qsyvrjyp almwxpi mrxs xli qmwx. mj wli airx, xsqsvvsa wli asyph fi sr xli wie amxl jvero, wxieqmrk xsaevhw fyirsw ecviw. xlimv tewweki leh fiir fssoih. gsyph wli wxmpp hvea fego ejxiv epp li leh hsri jsv liv? liv hmwxviww easoi e reywie mr liv fshc erh wli oitx qszmrk liv pmtw mr wmpirx jivzirx tveciv.
e fipp gperkih ytsr liv lievx. wli jipx lmq wimdi liv lerh:
gsqi!
epp xli wiew sj xli asvph xyqfpih efsyx liv lievx. li aew hveamrk liv mrxs xliq: li asyph hvsar liv. wli kvmttih amxl fsxl lerhw ex xli mvsr vempmrk.
gsqi!
rs! rs! rs! mx aew mqtswwmfpi. liv lerhw gpyxglih xli mvsr mr jvirdc. eqmh xli wiew wli wirx e gvc sj erkymwl.
izipmri! izzc!
li vywlih ficsrh xli fevvmiv erh geppih xs liv xs jsppsa. li aew wlsyxih ex xs ks sr fyx li wxmpp geppih xs liv. wli wix liv almxi jegi xs lmq, tewwmzi, pmoi e liptpiww ermqep. liv iciw kezi lmq rs wmkr sj pszi sv jeviaipp sv vigskrmxmsr.
